---
layout: post
title: Digital Literacy Narrative Assignment
modified: 1/31/2023, 9:00:24
tags: [intro, beginner, jekyll, tutorial]
comments: true
category: blog
---
## Table of contents
## Introduction
## Analysis


Due date: 24 March.
**Final Due date: 5 May**

Guiding questions: 
- What are the platforms you use?
- What are you good at in digital environments? 
- What can you use some improvement in? 
- What are you learning about new domains? 

> Please write a 500 word digital literacy narrative from the perspective of a 20 year old university student taking an introductory course in digital humanities. Include the strategies they currently employ in their daily and academic lives for content creation, social interaction, as well as any platforms or software they use for research data management as well as data manipulation and analysis. Please offer your critical reflection on your current abilities, what you are discovering in the course as well as what you would like to learn.

RESPONSE:

  I use technology for many of my goals and the more I use it, the more I come to appreciate it. Although, I have noticed that just like with everything else, this becomes robotic too, technology enters our life suddenly and it seems fantastic but then it becomes normal, a part of our lives, a tool we use and rarely think about. This has been one of the main themes in this class, not just advancing in technology, but actually incorporating humanities and questioning, creativity, or just contemplation in general. 

  I use websites to access books I want and then print them or read them on apps like PDF Drawboard. I use Canva to make designs like vision boards, quotes, CVs, and schedules, and Sheets or Microsoft Excel to create timetables. I also use Excel to create schedules and sometimes to calculate things such as my overall grade in a subject which has many parts. For creating presentations, I mainly use Canva but sometimes Powerpoint as well, and I would like to work on this area more such as learning how to incorporate more stuff like objects, charts, and better designs.

Recently, thanks to this class, I have also started to use platforms to analyze books such as Voyant, which, I find very intriguing and important because I can get to analyze and know a lot of things about a book without actually reading it, which saves my time and helps me choose the best books! Awesome, isn't it? Furthermore, I can also create different data visualizations and even compare books! So far, this is the area I would like to to be at another level because I like working with books a lot and being able to be playful with data just sounds so exciting to me! For example, I found another platfrom which allowed me to export a book in a text file and I was able to do data analysis for it in Vuoyant. Soon, I am going to learn how to convert different files and similar things which will allow me to do as much data analysis as it is possible!

I do not prefer using social media much, however, of course, I cherish the various opportunities that come with them. I usually prefer to talk to people like my family or friends through video calls so I use media like Google Meets or Zoom. I also do not like keeping up with news and recieving notifications because I do not like my attention getting controlled by the external world. However, as long as it is conscious, I have no problems with it.


The digital humanities course has introduced me to lots of fields in technology such as data mining and visualization. We have been using platforms like R or Posit Cloud and some others but I like Voyant the most because it is very easy to use and does a great job. In the beginning, we also were just focused on using Github, creating an account and forking this repository on which I am working right now. That is great about Github, that you can get data and edit, and even revert if you want as it has the aspect of saving versions. 
Technology is actually very exciting with all the new stuff coming in such as ChatGPT, AI, very skillful platforms, progressive 3rd printers, etc, and I wish to continue this exploration a bit more and then settle in one of the fields I like the most and learn more in depth while developing a passion about it. 

Furethrmore, it is interesting how humanities is important for the development of technology. While technology is developing rapidly, we have to recognize that it always has some forms of limitations. For example, HTR is great at recognizing handwritten text, however, it can only be used as a starting point because its accuracy rate is not very big. however, it is a great way to start and motivate oneself to do textual analysis, and there is always the option of training the platform to recognize the text better by editing the text it gives. OveralL, I really do like development in this and similar areas because this is how knowledge is becoming more and more accessible. For example, I have been able to find some very deep and worthwhile life teachings such as that of David Hawkins and Eckhart Tolle, which now I would actually want to level up and look more deeply into their books while creatively mining, comparing,relating, and visualizing, and coming up with new data or visualizations. I greatly wonder what person I would be had I not had access to the wisdom I have found through internet. 


In conclusion, my digital literacy journey as a student taking an introductory course in digital humanities has been new and inspring. I have become more curious and interested in technology and areas such as data analysis, manipulation, and visualization, textual analysis, and I am eager to continue learning about how to effectively utilize these tools for myself but also to get some good job done for others. I am looking forward to exploring more media and technological tools so that I will be able to create, modify, or present nice works and feel a meaning at doing this.
